### IMPORTANT NOTICE:
EMR for Factorio 2.1 build is now available.  Make sure double check the settings since some default setting have changed.

----------

# Enemy Race Manager

This mod aims provide a RTS experience with Factorio logistics.  It works best with other ERM branded mods.  Base game biters are also enhanced with new features.

Discord:  [https://discord.gg/BwWXygyEyQ](https://discord.gg/BwWXygyEyQ)

### Special Thanks
- [_jo.nat_](https://mods.factorio.com/user/_jo.nat_) to provide the remaster graphics!
- [Hawke] to improve ERM unit control features!
- See ERM assets credit for 3rd party assets. https://mods.factorio.com/mod/enemyracemanager_assets

### What's new in 2.1.0
- Factorio 2.1 support
- Added size_in_group for enemy units.  Enemy group size now depends on "unit supply".  Each unit take 1 - 4 supply.  Enemy groups are more dynamic with this.
- Added steering attribute for units.  When they group, they can form some interesting formations.
- Removed "Custom Base Expansion" logics because base game logic is very good in 2.1
- Custom attack group works with  "unit supply" changes.


##### Notices
- ~~2.0.x are all experimental release.  Expect crashes and unit imbalance. Most things are subjected to change. 2.1 will be the first stable release.~~
- 2.1.x releases during Factorio 2.1 beta are still consider experimental.  Once Factorio 2.1 release, ERM mods are consider stable by then.  Once ERM become stable, I'll focus on unit balance until I'm happy with my deathworld play test.
- Support for base game will be limited to shared features and fixing crashes.  This mod is now focus on warfare with space logistic in space age.
- When you are playing with many other mods.  Please go through "Mod Compatibility section" for additional detail or compatibility mod downloads.

### Download New race demo

These race mods are made as educational demos. You'll have to download them separately.

New Enemy Races:
- [Zerg - Garm Brood](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/erm_zerg)
- [Protoss - Akilea Tribe](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/erm_toss)
- [RedArmy](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/erm_redarmy)

Player Controllable Units:
- Engineer Army - included  (B rank)
- [>>>>Terran<<<<](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/erm_terran) (S rank)
- Some zerg units from [Zerg - Garm Brood](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/erm_zerg) (A rank)
- Some protoss units from [Protoss - Akilea Tribe](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/erm_toss) (A rank)

**Tips on defense:**
- A LOT OF construction robots and repair kits. Automate repair network ASAP. **MIX ALL TURRETS.** Uranium bullets and flamethrowers are OP.
- Build multiple layers of turrets and walls in early game.  Don't bother repairing without automated bot repairs.  Replace the destroyed turret and wall after they destroyed.
- Build army! Build army! Build army!
- [Advanced Spaceship Repair](https://mods.factorio.com/mod/advanced_spaceship_repair) helps to repair entities in a batch on spaceship during a space battle.  It's an recommended dependency and it requires space-age.

Do you want to create your new race? Please refer to this doc [New-Race-DEV-README.md](https://github.com/heyqule/enemy_race_manager/blob/main/doc/2.0-New-Race-Design.md) and join my discord for additional help.

# New Features
### Custom Enemy Evolution & Difficulty
Enemy evolution is based on Force's evolution factor and kills.  When enemy evolves, they pick a higher tier of the same units. The enemy evolve independently on each planet.  The more you kill, the quicker they evolve.

There are total of 5 tier for each enemy entity, from normal, great, exceptional, epic and legendary.  Which tier can you handle?

### New Unit Types
- Aerial units.
- Dropships, flying unit that spawn other units.
- Carriers, Unit that spawn other smaller units in a batch
- Builders, unit that builds spawner or turret on the spot.
- Invisible units, unit that can only be seen by certain turrets.
- Suicidal units, which kill themselves to cause massive damage.

### Custom Attack Groups & Attack Points
Custom attack groups are generated by attack points.  Everything you kill worth some attack points.  Once it hit a threshold, the enemy will send a wave of custom attack group to your base. They spawn on top of the base game's pollution based attacks.

There are various types of attack groups. Ground attack, Arial attack, dropships, stealth attacks. See in-game tip and tricks for details.

You should build air raid radar & siren to get early warning of aerial attacks.

### Environmental Attacks
Some enemy may parasitize another unit to spawn them.  Other may be practising quantum teleportation with lightnings.

### Interplanetary attacks
Interplanetary raid starts once you kill any enemy structure in their home planet.  Any discovered planet with enemies are an candidate for interplanetary attack.

Enemy without home planet and "Enemy" force are not able to perform interplanetary attack.

### Free for all
This is currently only work on Nauvis.  You'll have to select "Mixed mode" or one of the split mode for Nauvis enemy and enable "Free for all" to active this feature.

When this is enabled, player entity health and enemy damage multiplied by 10x. The multipliers are to balance the time enemy units take to kill each other.

### Advanced Army Controls (Only for ERM - Terran, or other compatible mods)
- Dedicated unit assembly lines.
- Set up rally point for automated unit deployment.
- Unit teleportation between 2 areas, including between planets/surfaces.
- Unit population control
- Player character can teleport between command centers.  Teleporting between planets requires you to empty your inventories.

ERM - Terran Control Tutorial: [https://youtu.be/MzDwGJ3OOGY](https://youtu.be/MzDwGJ3OOGY)

### New planets and space routes with tougher enemies.
Some enemy forces have home planet.  They are home to their Legendary forces.  Some of those planets have different resources and technologies to unlock. You may encounter enemies on some space routes to certain planets.

### ERM Economy
Zerg, Protoss and Redarmy spawners drop loots.  Those loots are used for new recipes and new army units.  They can also convert to biter eggs.

When you are not playing with biter, you don't have to capture the "spawner" to get biter eggs.

### ERM Planets

Planet Aiur and Planet Char use new minerals and geyser nodes.  They offer slightly different manufacture workflow.

Planet Earth, red army has custom build logic to build town and cities, including artillery armed and nuclear missile armed city.

### Boss discovery

Using PSI radar in enemy's home world will reveal their master mind.  Are you able to beat them for rewards?

### Modding Support
##### [Remote API Doc](https://github.com/heyqule/enemy_race_manager/blob/main/doc/remote_api.md)
- Include various endpoint to spawn custom attack group and adjust custom force data.
##### [Planet Modding Doc](https://github.com/heyqule/enemy_race_manager/blob/main/doc/planet_modding.md)
- Some modded planets with enemy may not compatible with ERM logics, you can disable ERM features via mod-data prototypes.
- Disable all ERM logics on a planet.
- Disable ERM interplanetary attack on a planet.
- Disable ERM bridge builder to run on a planet.

### Known Issues

* Not support peaceful mode. :)

### Mod Compatibility
Please see https://github.com/heyqule/enemy_race_manager/blob/main/Mod-Compatibility.md for full compatibility
details.

##### Space Exploration in 2.0
You need to download https://mods.factorio.com/mod/erm_se as well to fix compatiblity issues.  Any future SE issue will be fix in this compatibility mod

### Roadmap
https://github.com/users/heyqule/projects/1

### SPECIAL THANKS TO ALL CROWDIN TRANSLATORS
- 
- UK: Yuriy, Met_en_Bouldry, ExexDiablo
- DE: PatrickBlack, Spiti6910, Batrick
- ES: Jose Eduardo
- FR: Wiwok, Daiky Raraga
- RU: SeptiSe7en, Misha Mitchell, oZeDo, X-0D, Alaar
- HU: CsokiHUN
- CH-zn: Tanvec

You can help translate this mod directly online by going to the following link and finding "ERM" or "Enemy Race
Manager":

https://crowdin.com/project/factorio-mods-localization

New translation will be released in the next version.