2.0 Unit design

2 set of attributes

One for base game and without quality
This set is similar to the old level 20 system.

Base spawn rate 10s
Dow


Each tier changes
HP
Damage
Resistance
Running Speed
15s -> 10s

Quality Set
HP
Damage
Resistance
Running Speed
Attack Range
15 -> 10s


Spawners:
Each quality spawner spawns same tier or higher quality units.
HP changes slightly as base game has increase HP based on evolution.
Resistance change

Turret:
HP change
Resistance change
Damage change

Top tier single target damage is 150 - 300.
Top tier AOE target damage is about 150 - 200.


New Race development guide line
--------------------
This readme should be gives you a general start to create your new race.

#### settings.lua

Use this to add your race's map color.

The setting name format is {race_name}-map-color.

Example: [settings.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/settings.lua)

#### global.lua

This file defines mod constants. Many constants are used as function proxy keys.

If you copy this file from the another mod and plan to use same variable name for trigger events,
you have to change all values which are unique to your mod.

```lua
from
OVERLORD_DROP_ATTACK = 'emzrg-ovl'
to
OVERLORD_DROP_ATTACK = 'yourmodecode-ovl'
```

Example: [global.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/global.lua)

#### setting-update.lua

add your race to ERM settings' dropdowns

Example: [settings-updates.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/settings-updates.lua)

#### data.lua

This file is used to add unit, spawner and other data entities to the game.

The following is **REQUIRED** to register ERM races in data stage.

```
data.erm_registered_race = data.erm_registered_race or {}
data.erm_registered_race[MOD_NAME] = true
```

This is required for tuning "Mixed mode" autoplace function for base game.  It's not required for Space Age only enemies.

[Default_Autoplace.md](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/doc/Default_Autoplace.lua)

```
data.erm_spawn_specs = data.erm_spawn_specs or {}
table.insert(data.erm_spawn_specs, {
  mod_name=MOD_NAME,
  force_name=FORCE_NAME,
  moisture=2, -- 1 = Dry and 2 = Wet
  aux=2, -- 1 = red desert, 2 = sand
  elevation=2, --1,2,3 (1 low elevation, 2. medium, 3 high elavation)
  temperature=2, --1,2,3 (1 cold, 2. normal, 3 hot)
})
```

Example: [data.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/data.lua)

#### control.lua

Use this file to hook up the race data and control any custom functionality.

Example: [control.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/control.lua)

Point of interests:

* createRace()
    * This defines the force in-game.
    * We ignore peaceful game flag.  What's the point of having tougher enemy if you play peacefully. :D
* addRaceSettings()
    * This function set up race specific parameters.
    * [__enemyracemanager__/lib/remote_api.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/enemy_race_manager/blob/main/lib/remote_api.lua)

* script.on_event(defines.events.on_script_trigger_effect, function(event) end
    * handles custom attacks

* Register required function in remote.lua (See below)

#### scripts/remote.lua

[remote.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/scripts/remote.lua)

* RemoteAPI.milestones_preset_addons()
    * This function registers Milestone objective for Milestone mod

* RemoteAPI.register_new_enemy_race()
    * This function is **REQUIRED** to register your race with ERM in control stage.

#### scripts/custom_attacks.lua

[custom_attacks.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/scripts/custom_attacks.lua)

This file handles all custom attacks for dropships and alike.

#### scripts/boss_attacks.lua

[custom_attacks.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/scripts/custom_attacks.lua)

This file registers boss attacks

#### Units & Buildings:

##### Units and Buildings collisions:

```
Unit collision box / selection box:
local collision_box = { { -1, -1 }, {1, 1 } }
local selection_box = { { -1.25, -1.25 }, { 1.25, 1.25 } }

Building collision / selection / map bounding box
local collision_box = { { -3, -3.5 }, { 3.25, 2.75 } }
local map_generator_bounding_box = { { -4, -4.5 }, { 4.25, 3.75 } }
local selection_box = { { -3, -3.5 }, { 3.25, 2.75 } }
```

collsion_box for unit should be under 2 tiles, under { { -1, -1 }, {1, 1 } } in most cases. The gap between building is
designed to be 2 tiles, check collision_box and map_generator_bounding_box in buildings.  
Any number larger will make them stuck inside the base. However, you can change the selection box to match unit's size
since it won't affect how unit behave.

If you wish to keep a larger collision box, you will have to tweak your building's map_generator_bounding_box to have a
wider gap.

##### Unit abilities:

Many of the units have unique abilities, please refer to the lua files for reference

* Melee: [Zergling](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/zergling.lua)
* Melee AOE: [Ultralisk](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/ultralisk.lua)
* Range: [Hydralisk](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/hydralisk.lua)
* AOE Range:  [Lurker](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/lurker.lua)
* Flying Unit: [Mutalisk](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/mutalisk.lua)
* Max range attack: [Guardian](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/guardian.lua)
* Slow attack: [Devourer](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/devourer.lua)
* AOE Slow: [Queen](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/queen.lua)
* AOE healing: [Defiler](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/defiler.lua)
    * note that you can not do single unit healing because they can't target friendly unit.

Many of these units' attacks are handled via on_script_trigger_effect events

* Self destruct unit: [Infested](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/infested.lua)
* Dropping new units: [Overlord](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/overlord.lua)
* Construct new building with self destruct: [Drone](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/drone.lua)
* Spawning timed units (they die after 2 minutes): [Broodling](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/enemy/broodling.lua)

###### Default File to include:

```lua
local UnitHelper = require('__enemyracemanager__/lib/unit_helper') -- Unit Helper functions, use for calculating health, damage and etc.
local UnitTint = require('__enemyracemanager__/lib/unit_tint') -- Unit tint functions, use for tinting air unit exhaust and shadows.
local DebugHelper = require('__enemyracemanager__/lib/debug_helper') -- some debug function
local GlobalConfig = require('__enemyracemanager__/lib/global_config') -- Get proper settings for max level, max range and etc.
```

## Name Convention

Unit and building enemy have to be in this format.  Separated by double dash.

```lua
name = MOD_NAME .. '--' .. name .. '--' .. level
localised_name = { 'entity-name.' .. MOD_NAME .. '--' .. name, level }
```

* MOD_NAME is defined in global.lua
* name is the unit name

Other support entities, (explosion, projectile and etc) should use the follow convention to avoid name collision.

```lua
name = MOD_NAME .. '--' .. entity_name
```

Name collision cause mod conflict and make game to crash at startup.

#### Unit Spawners:

Please see [prototype/building/hive.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/building/hive.lua) for
details.

#### Turrets:

It feels more balance to have both spitter acid and direct attack for base defense.

* Spitter Acid
  attack: [prototype/building/spore_colony.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/building/spore_colony.lua)
* Direct
  Attack: [prototype/building/sunker_colony.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/erm_zerg/blob/main/prototypes/building/sunker_colony.lua)

##### HP Guideline:

These are general guide line.

Unit HP:

* Normal, Max 200, average 30 - 160,
* Great,  Max 1000, average 200 - 800
* Exceptional, Up to 5000, average 800 - 2000
* Epic, Up to 10000, average 1500 - 5000
* Legendary, Up to 20000, average 3000 - 10000

Spawner/Turret HP @ Legendary:

* turrets are 6000 - 15000
* proxy spawners are usually 5000 - 8000 health
* support spawner are 6000 - 12000, scale with 2.0 evolution HP multipler
* command center 10000+, scale with 2.0 evolution HP multipler

##### Max Resistance Guideline:

Unit Resistance:

* Physical: 85%
* Elemental: 80%
* Weak Elemental: 75%

Turret Resistance:

* Physical: 85%
* Elemental: 80%
* Weak Elemental: 75%

Spawner Resistance:
* Physical: 55%
* Elemental: 50%
* Weak Elemental: 45%

Spawn resistance have been reduced to balance 2.0's evolution HP multiplier.

##### Damage Guideline:

* Normal: 5 - 20 DPS (damage per second)
* Great: 20 - 70 DPS
* Exceptional: 40 - 120 DPS
* Epic and Legendary: 100 - 200+ DPS

AOE units usually use a lower value than above damage guideline. But you take the cooldown interval into consideration as well.

When designing top damage dealer, an 500 damage attack is likely too powerful, even if it only attacks once every
5s. That's still in 100 DPS range.  When there are a few of these units in a group, they can one shot any player structures.

HP for players structures are buffed to 500 when defense enhance option is enabled.  An unit should not be able to one shot them.  

##### Movement Speed Guideline:
The following are the average movement speed of all units.  The floor are mostly on point, but the ceiling are depends on units. Some of them are faster. 

Regular ground speed: (43 - 65KM/h)

```lua
local base_movement_speed = 0.2
local incremental_movement_speed = 0.1
```

Fast Ground speed:  (43 - 86KM/h)


```lua
local base_movement_speed = 0.2
local incremental_movement_speed = 0.2
```

Normal Flyer: (54 - 86 km/s)

```lua
local base_movement_speed = 0.25
local incremental_movement_speed = 0.15 -- or more
```

Fast Flyer: 65 - 97 km/s

```lua
local base_movement_speed = 0.3
local incremental_movement_speed = 0.15 -- or more
```

##### Attack Speed Guideline:

Fastest attack speed for all units is 0.25s / attack. (4 attacks / second)

Top tier attack speed range from 3s / attack to 4 attacks/s depending on unit design.

##### Attack Range Guideline:

Meele: 1

* Dropship: Any range depending on design.
* Builders: usually long range.
* Short Range: ERM_Config.get_max_attack_range() * 0.25
* Medium Range: ERM_Config.get_max_attack_range() * 0.5
* Long Range: ERM_Config.get_max_attack_range() * 0.75
* Max Range: ERM_Config.get_max_attack_range()

get_max_attack_range() is depends on the startup setting. Unmodded gun turret only have 18 range. It may not able to attack range 16+ enemy when those ranged enemies attack your wall.

The max range of a unit should not be further than the longest range of player turret.

Tier 1 units should not have max range, because unmodded gun turret may not able to shoot them.

Otherwise, these issues will just annoy players and break the flow of the game.


min_attack_distance, a parameter to randomize attack distance

- (unit_range - 2) if short range
- (unit_range - 3) if medium Range
- (unit_range - 4) if long range to max range

##### pollution_to_join_attack Guideline:

* Tier 1: 4 - 50
* Tier 2: 50 - 200
* Tier 3: 100 - 400
* Dropship: 120
* Builders: 100

Small biter (melee unit) is 4.

EMR Race Tier 1 units Reference:
Zergling = 4 (35HP), Hydralisk = 8 (80HP)
Zealot = 10 (160HP), Dragoon = 20 (180HP)
Human-Miner = 8(100HP), Human-Pistol = 8 (80HP)
Mars-People = 6, MiniUfo = 12

AOE units are in higher range. Tier 3 AOE units generally take 250-400 range.

##### vision_distance Guideline:

minimum 32 or Attack Range + 8

##### Projectile max range

call ERM_Config.get_max_projectile_range(). Default is 64 without multiplier. The following example returns 128.

```
  action_delivery = {
      type = "projectile",
      projectile = "scout-rocket",
      starting_speed = 0.3,
      max_range = ERM_Config.get_max_projectile_range(2),
  }
```
##### How to balance between other races in PVE

- Select a testing base [scenarios/debug/control.lua](https://github.com/heyqule/enemy_race_manager/blob/main/scenarios/debug/control.lua#L41)
- Load up Genereal Debug
- Set /c game.speed = 10
- Watch whether the base can hold up the attacks without artillery.
- If it's able to do so, start firing artillery to see whether it can hold up.
- My balance is based on whether the base is able to perform repairs after getting rekt.  You don't have to follow mine tho. Go nuts as long as it's not too OP.


##### How to balance between other races in free for all?

If a race have a fair fight with other races in 2 or 4 race split setting, then the unit balance is good enough.

- Set up your race settings in startup settings.
- Enable DEBUG_MODE flag in global.lua in ERM's core mod.
- Use 2 races or 4 races splits.
- assign the races you want to test.
- Load up the "Enemy race manager/General debug" scenario.
- Load "ERM Debug" map setting (400% enemy)
- disable water and tree?
- Start the game.
- set "/c game.speed = 1000" for ERM to work its magic.
- Go out for a walk for half hour and view the result when you are back.