## Prototypes Changes
- category attributes in recipe prototypes need to change to categories,  And need to be a table value. Example:
```lua
-- from
category = "chemistry",
-- to
categories = {"chemistry"},
```
- loot changed to use the item prototype. Example:
```lua
            unit_prototype.loot = {
                {type = "item", name = organ_name, independent_probability = 0.33,  amount_min = multiplier[1], amount_max = multiplier[2]}
            }
```
- "probability" property in item prototype changed to "independent_probability"
- lightning damage change from number to damage prototype "{ amount = 500 , type = "electric" }"

### Unit prototype changes:
- buildable_entities is required for build_base command to function.  Otherwise unit ignore that command.
```lua
    local buildable_entities = ERM_UnitHelper.get_buildable_entities(MOD_NAME, {
        "sunken_colony", "spore_colony", "greater_spire", "spire", "lair", "nyduspit",
    }, level)

    data.extend {
      ...
      buildable_entities = buildable_entities,
      ...
    }
    
```
- biter_ai_setting file is gone, replace it with the following.  ```
```
local AiHelper = require ("__erm_libs__/prototypes/ai_helper")

-- the "1" is for size_in_group attribute to act as unit supply.  The default group size is 200 unit supply. 

 ai_settings = AiHelper.get_enemy_unit_settings(1),
 
General supply guideline with group size of 200.
-- 1: weak unit (zergling), low health melee unit, suicidal units. 
-- 2: regular unit,
-- 3: aoe casters, medium, high damage unit 
-- 4: dropship, large tanky unit.
-- Timed units that spawn by other units uses 1 as well.  It doesn't accept 0.  This affects base game group generator.  But it doesn't affect ERM group generator. so whatever, not a big deal lol.  
```
- force_unit_fuzzy_goto_behavior is set in unit's steering attribute. For playable units, move = true, stay = false.

## Runtime changes
- entity.minable became read-only. Change to entity.minable_flag for write.
